It's the greatest tragedy in the history
of medicine. I I I I just once people
wake up to realize what I am saying and
I tell you everything this I show you
all the evidence. I did the experiments.
I show the efficacy can't be true. Can't
be true. Why I don't understand how some
oncologists or even physicians would say
that glucose has nothing to do uh with
the growth of the tumor. It absolutely
does. It's in the literature. most
important drug that we know of to manage
cancer is not being used because they
didn't do it right. Interference with
what I'm saying has nothing to do with
science. It has to do with policy and
acceptance of the scientific facts, not
the science itself. The science to my
mind is quite solid.
Dr. Thomas Seafred is a professor of
biology, genetics and biochemistry and
his remarkable work and research has
changed our understanding of cancer. Dr.
Seitz, thank you very much for being
with us today and my first question for
you professor is cancer is the second
leading cause of death worldwide with
millions of documented cases each year
and millions of death each year. Uh in
fact in your book you suspect that
cancer will be the leading cause of
death in industrial society overtaking
cardiovascular disease as the leading
cause of death. In your opinion what is
the reason behind this surge of cancer?
Thank you very much for having me today.
Uh and it's a pleasure for me to answer
your questions. Uh yes and in some
countries already in China I believe
cancer has surpassed cardiovascular
disease as the number one killer. And I
and I think you're correct. I the
trajectory says that it will probably
overtake uh heart disease in in in many
industrialized countries and unless
something is done. Um in the United
States, the new information just was
released by the American Cancer Society
telling us that uh over 612,000
Americans will die from cancer in 2025.
uh- which comes out to be 1,700
persons a day. And if you go by the
hour, that means about 70 people per
hour will be dying from cancer in the
United States. So, and it's getting
worse. It's not getting better. Um so
what is responsible
uh for this uh incredible uh increase
in cancer as you said? Well, it's never
one thing when you have a a disaster
like this or an epidemic of of whatever.
There's never just one thing that
contributes
uh uh to the crisis or to the um to the
disaster. Let's put it that way. And
this is a a medical disaster of
monumental proportions. Um we're seeing
younger and younger people getting
cancer. So clearly uh we have an issue
with that. But we have several several
biological explanations
and we have um policy uh knowledge
explanations.
uh and let's go through the explanations
for why we have an increase continued
increase uh in in cancer. Um the obesity
epidemic
is now uh replacing smoking as a major
risk factor for cancer. Um obesity is
linked to type 2 diabetes and systemic
inflammation in the body. Uh systemic
inflammation
damages mitochondria. Mitochondria is
the organel in the cell that's
responsible for efficient energy
production. Uh that or uh disruption of
that organel's ability to produce energy
efficiently is the origin of cancer. So
um when that organel becomes corrupted
in a variety of different ways from
inflammation from radiation from
chemical carcinogens from ankcogenic
viruses um uh intermittent hypoxy as I
said these kinds of thing and age by
itself aging aging uh any one of these
provocative uh agents can interrupt the
function of energy efficiency leading to
compensatory
glucose and glutamine driven
fermentation.
and disregulated cell growth. Um uh so
that's the origin of cancer. Now why is
it that that the the numbers keep keep
increasing and the deaths the deaths
keep increasing? because the uh world
cancer institutes from the National
Cancer Institute in the United States to
the NHS in England to all the major uh
academic and and research centers, they
all are under the belief that cancer is
a genetic disease. And when you take the
world power of of of treatment and focus
on something other than what the disease
is, you have no successful management.
So um so when you say when people say
cancer is a genetic disease they seem
they're focusing on things that are not
uh central uh to the problem. Most of
this stuff is secondary downstream
effects. The mutations that we see in
cancer this the development of precision
medicines to try to target these
mutations and the consequences of the
mutations. All of this is downstream
epiphenomenon.
uh if it's not central to the problem,
then the problem persists. The problem
does not go away. We know that cancer is
driven by a fermentation metabolism.
That's energy without oxygen. And the
fuels for that are the sugar, glucose,
and the amino acid uh glutamine. And we
know that the cancer cells cannot burn
fatty acids or ketone bodies. So once
you realize that all cancers that we
have looked at have a problem in
generating energy through oxygen and are
all dependent to some degree or another
on fermentation of two different fuels
and cannot burn fatty acids or ketone
bodies. Then the appropriate uh approach
to managing the disorder is to
simultaneously restrict the two fuels
driving fermentation and transition the
whole body over to a fuel ketone bodies
and fatty acids that the cancer cells
can't use. And then they will gradually
be eliminated slowly and and this will
drop the death rate and will make cancer
a very manageable disease. But the
reason why that's not being done is
because the field thinks cancer is a
genetic disease and they're not focusing
on what I say. And then and why is that?
Because of ideological dogma. People
have been indoctrinated into thinking
cancer is a genetic disease. And any
form of indoctrination,
whether it's political, religious, or
scientific, prevents the brain from
being rational.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement.
Starting with the general scientific
concepts by Dr. Thomas Ciphford, we will
show you how to start the ketogenic
diet, including which foods to choose
and which to avoid. Additionally, we
prepared a list of doctors specialized
in metabolic therapy as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen protocols. So, take a
look around at school.com/ keto for
cancer.
You you have to have rational thinking
to break through dogma. That's the way I
look at it. And as long as people are
dogmatic and thinking cancer is a
genetic disease, the numbers of dead
people will continue to increase year in
and year out. That pretty much
summarizes uh uh 100 years of scientific
research uh uh in this area.
>> You explain it very clearly. Thank you
for this detailed answer. And in
pathophysiological term, what is the
origin of cancer?
>> The origin of cancer comes from
carcinogens. It comes from intermittent
hypoxy. It it comes from systemic
inflammation. It come from uh encogenic
viruses. There's a lot of ways to damage
oxidative phosphorilation.
>> Does chronic consumption of highly
processed carbohydrate leads to
mitochondrial dysfunction?
>> It leads to systemic inflammation,
inflammatory cytoines can damage
mitochondria. Okay. So, so it's the it's
the mechanism by which mitochondria
damage.
>> Cancer cells survive without glucose and
only glutamine.
um they can survive but they can't grow.
Um so uh if I take away the glucose uh
the glutamine will keep them alive uh to
some extent uh but they can't grow
because they need the carbons from the
glucose molecule to grow. If I have
glucose and take away the glutamine, the
cancer cell can survive
uh but it can't grow because it needs
the nitrogen from the amino acid to to
grow to make new DNA and RNA. It's the
it's the two fuels together that are
absolutely essential for the continued
uh disregulated growth.
>> And there's a lot of confusion about uh
glucose. What does glucose do to the
mitochondria?
>> Glucose fuels mitochondria. You know you
and I are burning glucose right now in
our mitochondria. Okay. But if we had
cancer, glucose would be fueling the
cancer as well. So uh but the cancer
cell needs the glucose. Absolutely. It's
requirement. Uh our normal cells can
switch to fatty acids and ketone bodies
which the cancer cell cannot use. So
then you can marginalize the ability of
that cell to survive by taking away the
glucose and also the glutamine. It has
to be done together because because some
cancers require more glucose than
glutamine. Other cancers more glutamine
than glucose. So if I take away both
fuels simultaneously and transition the
body over to ketosis, nutritional
ketosis, then you can um kill the cancer
cells. But you you have to be careful
because glutamine is an essential amino
acid required for the health of our gut
and our immune system. That's why we
developed the press pulse therapeutic
strategy which chronically stresses
glucose availability but intermittently
targets glutamine because kill cancer
cell keep immune system healthy. Kill
cancer cell keep immune cells and the
gut healthy. Kill cancer cells keep the
immune. So on off on off on off onoff
it's a pulsing pulsing pulsing pulsing.
If you try to chronically target
glutamine you paralyze the immune system
and damage the gut. So you have to know
basic physiology of all organ systems
how they work together and the
vulnerability uh of the tumor cell and
based on that understanding all major
cancers can be managed whether or not
they can be cured I don't know but we
can certainly manage them uh more
effectively without toxicity that's
important is not a carcinogen you people
have to realize that they misunderstand
what glucose is if you have cancer then
glucose becomes a fuel But glucose is
not participatory in the origin of
cancer. What glucose can do is it can
contribute to diabetes and obesity which
create inflammation in the bloodstream
which then damages oxidative fuss. But
glucose itself is not a carcinogen. But
glucose is if you have cancer which is
disregulated cell growth. Glucose is the
fuel driving disregulated cell growth.
So if you take away glucose that shuts
down a primary fuel for the disregulated
growth but not the other fuel. You got
to target glutamine as well.
>> And how do we prevent or lower our risk
of cancer?
>> Put it this way. It's very very
difficult to get cancer if the
mitochondria in our cells remain healthy
and highly functional. Um and generally
that's prevention. So, uh, our
Paleolithic ancestors, uh, rarely if
ever had cancer. Rare, it would be very
rare. And how do we know this? Because,
um, Albert Schweitzer, a humanitarian
physician, studied primitive tribes that
live according to their traditional
ways. Uh, where cancer was extremely
rare. Cancer exploded in those in those
tribes when the great American diet and
lifestyle entered entered their their
uh, environment. And then you get super
fat, demented, cancer, type type two
diabetes. It's clearly clearly related
to diet and lifestyle. H uh but but
people who live according to paleolithic
ways have low blood sugar, a lot of
exercise, and they have um they have to
be burning ketones. Our paleolithic
ancestors because they had no highly
processed carbohydrates in the
environment. They ate mostly meat uh
which is very doesn't jack up glucose
very high. Uh they had no sweet foods or
processed carbohydrates. Maybe maybe
fruit during seasonal times when it
would be ripe. They might be able to
raise some some blood sugar, but they
had a lot of exercise and they ate foods
that were very low in carbohydrate
content and they would not have cancer
because we see that in tribes that live
according to traditional ways. So um
highly processed carbohydrates, lack of
exercise, stress, poor sleep allow the
body to go into a state uh of
dishomeostasis
uh leading to mitochondrial damage which
can be leading to uh not only cancer but
dementia, type 2 diabetes,
cardiovascular disease. All these
chronic diseases are the result of
metabolic dishomeostasis as the result
of an of an inappropriate diet and
lifestyle. An inappropriate diet is
mostly related to highly processed
carbohydrate food that spikes the blood
sugar and keeps it up.
>> Yeah, that's right. That's what we call
high glycemic foods. We can eat
carbohydrates, not like some plant uh
vegetables and things, they will have
carbs, but they can be complex
carbohydrates
um that it doesn't spike right away. The
spike comes from the glycemic index of
the food that you eat. So if I spike
sugar uh by eating a highly processed
carbohydrates with minimal or or zero
nutritional value, it causes my insulin
to spike. The insulin spikes right after
you put the and that drives the the
sugar into the cells and insulin becomes
insensitive if you keep doing this and
then you start to collect all this fat
because the sugar is being driven is
forming fat. Fat creates inflammation in
in excessive amounts of course and uh
you put yourself on the path for chronic
disease, cancer being uh the worst one
because that'll kill you uh if you don't
know how to and then so so you have
inappropriate way um to to un
inappropriate response to a disease that
can be prevented. And in one of your
prior interviews, you've mentioned that
your colleague in Estumble have used the
metabolic therapy in combination with
the standard therapy and that led to
better outcome and lower dose of
chemotherapy. Did I get this correct?
>> Yes, you are absolutely correct. The the
the the idea though is that if you if
the body is in nutritional ketosis and
we and we developed the glucose ketone
index calculator to allow people whether
with or without cancer to know whether
or not they're in nutritional ketosis.
nutritional ketosis can both prevent
cancer and help to kill cancer cells uh
along with glutamine targeting. So we we
found that uh uh glucose ketone index of
2.0 or below puts tremendous metabolic
stress on the tumor cells making them
more vulnerable to chemotherapy
uh which can be delivered in much lower
dosages. So collateral damage to normal
tissues becomes much much less because
the tumor cells are now super vulnerable
uh to chemo because they're very they're
the their their fermentation metabolism
driven by glucose and glutamine is
weakened. So they are on the threshold
of dying. So even a a lower dose of
chemo, even a lower dose of radiation,
even a lower dose of imunotherapy, any
of these traditional more traditional or
standards of care will work. so much
better with so much less toxicity if the
body is in a state of nutritional
ketosis because that puts tremendous
pressure on the tumor cell survival. So
you don't need to use so high of a
concentration of radiation or chemo to
kill the tumor cells. And our friends in
Istanbul are experimenting with these
conditions right now and they're the
ones who are relaying this information
to me.
>> And could you tell us why is the
metabolic therapy so effective? because
the cancer cells require the two fuels,
the fermentation fuels. Um, and they
can't grow a a and they can't grow
without these two fuels. So, they can't
use anything else. So, uh, metabolic
therapy restricts those two fuels uh,
killing many many tumor cells and making
other parts of, uh, treatments more much
more effective. So, without those fuels,
you can't make new lipids, proteins or
nucleic acids. You you have to you need
building blocks. Number one, you need
building blocks. And number two, you
need energy. And without energy, nothing
can grow. Nothing can live. Um how do we
know that? Because uh we we know cyanide
is a poison. Um uh people who take
cyanide are dead instantly. Uh because
cyanide shuts down all the energy in the
cell. Okay? You die. Without energy, you
die. Cancer cells require energy but
they use an alternative form. They use
substrate level phosphorilation
basically a fermentation metabolism
rather than oxidative phosphorilation.
And we have found and published that uh
the glutamine can generate energy in the
mitochondria using a substrate level
phosphorilation or a fermentation
metabolism to replace the lost energy
from oxidative phosphorilation.
Interestingly enough, if a person has a
tumor,
this was done by Warberg and others and
us too. Um, and give the give the animal
the cyanide uh it kills the mouse or the
host but not the tumor. The tumor can
live without oxidative phosphorilation.
So that tells us it must ferment. What
does it ferment? Glucose and glutamine.
How do you know this? Because we tested
it. We we took away we tested all the
different amino acids to see which one
is the most effective. and glutamine is
the most effective. So you target the
glutamine and take away the glucose and
transition to ketones, the tumor cells
die. They they can't live. Uh and then
um then you know how to manage the
cancer. It's it's not that it's not that
complicated. It's ma it was made to be
complicated, massively complicated
because people thought cancer is a
genetic disease and there's millions of
different kinds of mutations making a
bewilderingly complicated disease. But
when you look at it based on the energy
and bioenergetics, it's a very simple
disease. This is driven by fermentation.
And then you say, well, well, if that's
known, why don't we target fermentation
metabolism in cancer patients and manage
the disease? And the answer is because
the field thinks cancer is a genetic
disease. It's a they're brainwashed into
thinking it's something other than what
it is. And therefore, we get 1,700
people a day dying needlessly from this.
And around the world as well. So uh um I
mean it's the most it's the greatest
tragedy in the history of medicine. I I
I I just once people wake up to realize
what I am saying. People are going to
just be so mortified by the fact that we
had a we had a process. We have we have
a ways right now to drop this death rate
and and keep people alive longer and we
are not doing that.
>> Thank you very much. Can you stop tumor
growth just by lowering the blood sugar?
It doesn't stop growing completely
because unless you target the glutamine,
it's going to continue. It can live. It
might not grow very much. It grows much
slower. So you can you can take a very
angry and inflamed rapidly growing tumor
and lower the blood sugar and the tumor
grows much slower. It becomes less angry
and less inflamed. Uh but it doesn't
necessarily go away completely. Uh uh
we've had people that have had these
tumors in their body for years. um
always there but never going away but
not not uh so aggressive or or lethal.
>> I remember I read a paper where you
published where the higher the blood
sugar the faster the tumor grows and the
lower the blood sugar the slower the
tumor grows. Uh yes, we were the first I
think to publish this back in 200 uh2
uh where we showed a direct relationship
between how high blood sugar is and how
fast the mouse tumor in the brain would
grow. So we showed that the lower the
sugar, the slower the growth and the
higher the sugar glucose of course the
faster the tumor growth. Then we started
to see many of similar kinds of studies
done in humans with all kinds of
different cancers, breast cancer, colon
cancer, brain cancer.
The the higher the sugar, the more
rapidly the tumor would grow. And the
lower the sugar, the less rapidly the
tumor would grow. Um, and it was
published in many many papers uh showing
this relationship uh between the level
of blood sugar and and how fast the
tumor would grow. And this is why I
don't understand how some oncologists or
even physicians would say that glucose
has nothing to do uh with the growth of
the tumor. It absolutely does. It's in
the literature. A big problem, another
reason why we're not making any advances
is the people who should know the
information never were never told of the
information nor do they read the
scientific literature. Um, so that's
another reason why we have this uh
catastrophe in cancer is that people
don't either don't read the scientific
literature or even worse don't even
understand it. So uh um and then we have
the tragedy.
>> What blood sugar level did you observe
where the tumor doesn't grow
>> that that goes to the glucose ketone
index calculator and uh the don't forget
um the brain is largely responsible for
taking in most of the sugar in our body.
Okay, the brain um however the brain can
switch over to ketone bodies when you
lower blood sugar. So, but the cancer
cell can't switch over. So, this is the
difference. So, many of our heart and
muscles and things like this, they can
all switch to ketones and fatty acids
while you lower blood sugar. But the
brain, even when you lower blood sugar,
uh the brain will take what's available
before any other organ will. The last
group of cells that will get the sugar
will be the cancer. Because if you
exercise, muscle takes sugar out of the
bloodstream to build glycogen and burns
it in the muscle. The brain takes
whatever the what's available. And the
cancer cells are the last one to take
what's left. So even if you lower your
blood sugar down to um a low GK, glucose
ketone index is what we call it. Uh what
the Oh, you say, "Well, you didn't get
rid of all your glucose." That's true
because the muscle and the brain need it
uh before the tumor cell needs it. So
the last the last cells to get it are
the tumor cells. So when you lower down
the brain and the muscles are going to
take what little you have in there and
the tumor cells are going to get much
much less and they're going to die. So
uh exercise and low GKI puts a
tremendous uh uh uh stress on the
availability of the tumor cell to
survive. And then you simply come in
with a drug that targets the glutamine
and you slaughter these tumor cells.
Slaughter them. So um and you keep the
body healthy while you're doing this.
And gradually the tumor gets smaller and
smaller and more indolent and more
indolent where a surgical procedure or
radiation procedure or some final
procedure with an imunotherapy could
potent potentially cure the disease
potentially. But you put the metabolic
pressure first and then you come in with
the other strategies to remove the final
survivors. And which type of exercise do
you find better in lowering cancer?
Cardio or strengthening or a combination
of both?
>> Probably a combination of both. Um, and
you measure their glucose ketone index
while you're doing while you're doing
this as well. Um, so yes, it's a
combination of both because you're
moving muscles. Muscles take in glucose
from the bloodstream. So the more
exercise you give whether it's aerobic
or or static weights or whatever you
want to do um it's all effective.
>> And can you reach this ketogenic status
without the ketogenic diet through other
diet like fiber richch diet?
>> Well you can get it's again how what
what diet do you need to bring your GKI
down the glucose ketone index. Um as I
said any diet can do that. Uh if you're
a carnivore, you can do it just eating
meat. Uh because there's very no
carbohydrates in the meat, very very
little. Um so but you'd have to then
slowly restrict uh because you have to
get where you going to get your ketones.
Uh yes, fat would certainly bring it in,
but um your body will start mobilizing
fat stored fat in our atapost sites and
they will go to the liver, the fat fatty
acids, and the liver will make ketone
bodies. So um if you don't bring
carbohydrates into your body uh you have
to then generate carbohydrate from
burning other fuels in the liver and the
liver will produce a small amount of
carbohydrate uh through gluconneogenesis
but the brain will gobble that up if you
have low glucose. The brain and the
muscles will gobble the tumor cell will
not be able to get much uh from from
that. So, but you can you can get a low
GKI with a Mediterranean diet, carnivore
diet, a a vegetarian diet, a fish diet.
Doesn't make any difference what you
eat. You would just measure your blood
gluc ketone index, the glucose ketone
index. A ketogenic diet is simply a diet
that has a lot more fat than protein or
carbs. That's one kind of diet, but a
car a carnivore diet. And then and then
each person is a unique metabolic
machine, a metabolic machine. So what
what a diet that may work good for one
person may not be good for another
person. That's why we use the GKI as a
marker to determine uh whether you're
going to put pressure on your tumor
regardless of what diet you eat. And
people say, "Oh, I can't get a GKI low.
You said 2.0. I can never do." Well,
then go on water fasting for crying out
loud. That'll bring it down. you know,
it'll break and then add stuff back and
see, oh, I'm starting to eat this
particular food and it's not rising my
GKI, then good. That that's a kind of a
food. All the foods regardless must be
balanced in macro and micronutrients as
well, so you don't cause a an imbalance.
>> And if someone cannot tolerate ketogenic
diet and wants to reach this ketogenic
state, what can they eat?
>> You know, it depends on each person.
Some people can't tolerate ketogenic
diets, but they can tolerate um a
carnivore diet or a fish diet. Uh it
depends on the person. What is the best
way to keep the person uh relatively
happy or not stressed out and killing
cancer cells and everybody has to
determine that for themselves. They
always ask me, "Oh, what?" He never said
what to eat. I cannot tell you what to
eat because you might be different from
the other guy. He oh he said to eat that
and I ate that it didn't work and he ate
that and it worked. Just use your
glucose ketone index with the keto mojo
meter and you'll know what you can and
cannot eat and that varies from one
person to the next. So as I said if you
have a diet that's balanced
appropriately in micro and
macronutrients and low and highly
processed carbs, it's probably pretty
good for you. Eat a little bit of it and
see what it does to your GKI and then
you'll know whether or not you're in the
zone of of therapeutic ketosis which is
healthy keeping your mitochondria
healthy, reducing oxygen free radicals
and reducing the risk for cancer and
other chronic diseases.
>> There a diet that lowers glutamine.
>> Diet will not lower glutamine. Exercise
can lower glutamine a little bit but no
diet can lower glutamine. Diet can lower
glucose but a diet cannot lower
glutamine. Therefore, it's a press pulse
and the pulsing comes from drugs.
What are some of the agents that lower
glutamine and which one did you find to
be the most effective?
>> Well, you can lower we actually found
that the drug six deoxy uh norucine it
looks like glutamine that's the in our
in our in our research that's the most
effective so far um which targets the
ability of glutamine to be metabolized
to glutamate. So it blocks the blocks
that first metabolic step. Uh that drug
was in fact used for many years on
children and people with different
cancers but it was discontinued
because they said it was toxic. Uh it's
not as toxic as the red devil doc
rubeson and all these horrible
chemicals. Um uh it's off patent so
people can't make money on it. Uh but
the other thing too is when they did use
dawn which is dioxin or leucine they
never targeted glucose. They did they
didn't do it right. They didn't do it
right and they didn't transition the
body to ketones. Um and therefore the
the the most important drug that we know
of to manage cancer is not being used
because they didn't do it right. So uh
but there the drug companies are making
other drugs um that can target glutamine
and these are coming on the market but
they don't target the glucose and put
the body in nutritional ketosis when
they're using their drugs. So the effect
efficacy of these drugs can be some
efficacy for sure but they're not going
to be maximum unless you target the
glucose when the body is in nutritional
ketosis.
H how is that hard so hard to understand
the the I'll tell you one reason they
want to make money on the drug and they
have to show that the drug by itself has
therapeutic benefit but if I put so I
it's more important to make the money
than it is to keep the person alive this
is the bottom line so uh people have to
know that uh I'm more interested in
seeing how long I can keep people alive
because that to me tells me we know what
we're doing and it's a use of different
drugs different diet diets, different
procedures that help each person as a
unique individual live longer uh with a
stage four cancer or any kind of cancer
for that matter. So, I'm more interested
in keeping people alive than making
money. I have a job. I make money for my
job. I don't need to make a billion
dollars. All I have to do is keep people
alive. What's wrong with that?
>> Yeah, thank you for that. That's why so
many people follow you. Do you find the
metabolic therapy to be effective in
certain types of cancer and to be less
effective in other types of cancer? I
>> think it works with all kinds of cancers
equally. Um maybe you have to modify it
slightly. We just published a big paper
for man managing glyopblastoma terrible
brain tumor. A very very comprehensive
uh protocol treatment protocol with
myself and Dr. Thomas Durier as the
first author and many of our colleagues
MDs and PhDs and nutritionists on this
same paper and and uh we we we went
through all of the different ways in
which we can uh reduce uh uh the growth
of a rapidly growing growing glyopblast
and and put it under under control. Um
but the reason why the diet targets
glucose and glutamine while
transitioning the body off to ketosis
since every major cancer that we have
looked at has the same problem
metabolically they can't uh they're
dependent on a fermentation and they
have defect of number structure and
function of mitochondria I predict and
where it has been done in lung cancer
colon cancer uh uh breast cancer yes
metabolic therapy will be the standard
of care for all major cancers
Once once the ideological dogma once we
get rid of the dogma so uh that cancer
is a genetic disease we'll start to
really come after it all these major
cancers and we will drop the death rate
significantly
uh if if this were to be started in the
way we have defined it and and designed
the the treatment protocol
>> and I believe I read an article where
you looked under the electron microscope
for the majority types of cancer. Uh
could you tell us what were your
observations?
>> Well, I didn't do that, but I went back
for those people that did do that. Uh
the work on the electron microscopy, you
can't see mitochondria very clearly with
a light microscope.
>> Um even at 400x 400 times, you can't you
can just see specs and things. But in
order to see the organel really close
up, you need electron microscopy. So
when electron microscopy became uh
available in the 1950s and60s and 70s
when they constantly perfected this
instrument u many pathologists and
scientists were simply excited to look
at the different structure of of
organels under the electron microscope
and and they didn't really um know the
significance of what they were looking
at. Most of them some of them of course
did uh but you found mitochondria
that were broken. you found mitochondria
that were abnormal in structure. Uh many
many m you have sometimes you have no
very very few mitochondria other times
you have tremendous numbers but they're
all morphologically abnormal. And in in
our understanding of biology structure
determines function. So if the structure
of the organel is abnormal the function
of the ab uh organel will be abnormal.
And what is the function of the the
organel mitochondria to produce energy
efficiently so the cell can maintain a a
homeostatic
differentiated state. Um so all the
tumors that we have looked at uh that
others have looked at and reported uh uh
have all shown abnormalities in the
number structure of the mitochondria.
And then when you take the mitochondria
out of the cell and you begin to study
the mitochondria separately you find
it's functionally abnormal as well. So
that's telling us that the very organel
responsible for maintaining homeostasis
is abnormal causing the cell to fall
back on a fermentation dependent on
glucose and glutamine. So So that's the
linkage. Structure determines function.
When the structure of the organel is
abnormal, the function will be abnormal
and that will cause the cell to rely on
a fermentation metabolism to grow.
disregulated cell growth driven by a
fermentation metabolism because the
organel that's supposed to maintain
differentiation
uh and and metabolic homeostasis is
damaged is abnormal.
>> And could you talk to us please about
the experiment where they took an the
nucleus from a cancer cells and put it
in a normal cell and took the nucleus
from a normal cell and put it in a
cancerous cell. nuclear mitochondrial
transfer experiments uh were were were
telling us that if you take the nucleus
uh out of the tumor cell uh re isolate
the nucleus from the cytoplasm uh of a
tumor cell and uh put that nucleus into
the cytoplasm of a normal cell and then
put that cell under the skin of a rat.
uh you don't get you don't get uh uh any
growth. You don't that whatever whatever
happened uh suppressed the abn whatever
was in the nucleus that was thought to
cause disregulated growth I was was was
reduced was removed. On the other hand,
if you take the nucleus
uh uh of the normal cell
uh and put it into the cytoplasm of a
tumor cell and then put that under the
skin of the rat, you got disregulated
growth on a big tumor.
>> So uh clearly what it was telling us is
the mitochondria in the cytoplasm, not
the mutations in the nucleus that are
causing the disregulated cell growth. uh
and this has been done both in vitro in
culture dishes as well as in living
animals uh frogs and mice uh all of
these things. And then on the other
hand, if you take an aggressive tumor
and remove the mitochondria from the
cytoplasm and put in new mitochondria
from a normal cell, you get a
suppression of the disregulated growth.
On the other hand, if you have an
indolent tumor growing very very slow uh
and you remove the mitochondria and put
the mitochondria from the aggressive
tumor into the cytoplasm of the indolent
tumor, the indolent tumor now becomes
super aggressive. So clearly
disregulated cell growth is due to
abnormalities in mitochondria structure
and function not in the mutations in the
nucleus
>> that supports that it's a metabolic
disease rather than a genetic disease.
>> That's the strongest evidence that we
know of. And then we also know that you
have to realize in the genetic uh uh
dogma that uh you have many thousands of
different kinds of mutations that can be
found in tumor cells and not all the
mutations are considered drivers of the
disregulated growth. Only some mutations
were thought to be drivers. They call
driver because that mutation is more
important than the passenger mutation
which just doesn't do anything. So what
we're now finding so the the genetic
field said oh cancer is a genetic
disease but only uh due to driver
mutations. So uh if you have uh these
drivers that would lead to disregulated
cell growth. Um but now new information
is showing that normal cells in our body
you me uh we have mutations in driver
genes that are not causing any
disregulated cell growth. So that's
another piece of evidence that
completely dis it disengages the gene
theory that we have driver mutations in
our body that don't form cancer. Um and
now we have some cancer cells that have
no mutations. So yet they're
disregulated in the cell growth. Not too
many, very rare, but it does happen. Um
so so clearly what this is telling us
the nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments the f the findings of driver
gene mutations in normal cells all of
this is telling us it's it's the the
cancer cannot be driven by disreg by by
mutations disregulated cell growth is
not caused by somatic mutations and the
and the germline mutations that are risk
factors all of the germline mutations
disrupt mitochondrial energy function.
So clearly origin of cancer is a it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease and the
mutations that we see in cancer cells
come from the abnormal metabolism of the
mitochondria. So reactive oxygen species
are carcinogenic and mutagenic and
they're coming out of the abnormal
mitochondria and they cause the nuclear
gene mutations and broken chromosomes
and this kind of stuff. So clearly when
you put all the parts together, cancer
is a mitochondrial metabolic disease
driven by a fermentation metabolism
involving glucose and glutamine and an
inability to transition over to fatty
acids and ketone bodies. How do we know
that? I did the experiments. I showed
the evidence and published the evidence
in the scientific literature. And then
you say, well, how come nobody wants to
because they're dogma the dogma. The
brain can't think when it's
indoctrinated
and the jobs and the money and the
billions and billions of dollars locked
into a failed theory and we have 1700
people in the United States dying every
day because the brain can't get out of
the dogmatic view. It's it's an
ideological dogma and I tell you
everything this I show you all the
evidence. I did the experiments. I show
the efficacy. Can't be true. Can't be
true. Tell you tell me what's wrong with
that picture. Can you tell me what
what's wrong with this picture?
>> I mean it's difficult to argue against
anything you said and you have explained
it very clearly. Do you have this sort
of conversation with oncologist and what
is their reaction towards these
hypothesis?
>> They get pissed off. A lot of them get
angry.
They get they get angry because they
said I never heard this and never taught
this in medical school. Oh because you
haven't heard it in medical school that
means it can't be true. And some of them
are very good. They say well we got to
learn. We have to know what you guys
know. And I said, "Yeah, that's going to
drop the cancer death rate. That's going
to manage the disease." Lot of reasons
for why what I said cannot be accepted.
You have a multi-billion dollar industry
running on a somatic mutation theory of
the disease and it's not that. And yet
everybody's making a lot of money on
this and then you come along and say
it's a completely different disease than
what you thought. Oh, how are we going
to make these changes? But don't forget,
we're not getting rid of standards of
care. Uh we're we're still keeping
radiation, chemo, surgical mutilation. S
surgery can be done as a final stage for
the cure. Uh because you can cure cancer
with surgery. If you can take out the we
want to bring the tumor down uh make it
less angry, small like a wart, something
really small, less less angry, less
inflamed and then you can surgically
debulk it. So surgery is still part of
this. Yes, we can still use radiation.
Yes, we can still use chemotherapy. You
just have to know the order in which you
need to do these things and that
requires a retraining. So um and
understanding what you need to shrink
your tumor down, make it indolent, weak
and now come in with other therapies to
potentially deliver a uh metabolic
therapy is not likely to uh call produce
a cure, but it can certainly allow the
combination of all of the therapies
together to lead to a so but right now
we're not doing it. we're not doing it
correctly. We're using therapies uh
upfront uh based on a sematic mutation
theory. Uh that's not not effective. You
got to do you have to rearrange the
order in which you attack this tumor in
the right way. You want to make sure
there is no toxicity in the treated
patient there. They just don't know how
to do what we what we already know how
to do. And once we once our word gets
out, you're going to see incredible
responses on these on these patients.
So, uh, is it going to be quick? No,
it's not going to be quick. It it could
take you 6 months to a year to to manage
cancer in the in the correct way.
>> Yes.
>> But when you emerge when you emerge from
the treatment, you'll be much healthier
than you were when you started. Not only
will your cancer be under control, but
your whole body your whole body will be
healthier. And for those who wants to
lower their risk of cancer without
advanced tracking, they don't want to
get pricricked multiple times a day.
>> It wouldn't have to be multiple times a
day. Uh we're working that out. Yes,
they have uh technology is improving. We
already have the free Libra for
measuring blood sugar and you can do you
can measure it. It sticks to your arm
and it measures glucose in real time and
then it goes to your cell phone so you
can actually see your blood sugar at any
given time. eat something, eat a banana,
watch it go through the roof, you know,
eat eat a small piece of butter and
watch it go down. Um, but we don't have
the ketone uh yet. Um, the monitor for
ketone. You still have to prick your
finger. That's why the glucose ketone
index, the keto mojo and maybe some
other meters uh can measure the two
together. And I know people don't like
to prick their finger to I don't like it
either, but um you know people who have
diabetes, they have to do this uh many
times a day sometimes, but now they have
the pre the Libra uh and I think that
once we have a free Libra ketone meter,
then you can get real time GKI on your
on your phone and uh that will tell you
uh then you'll have know right there on
your on your cell phone. You can
actually eat something and watch it
change on the cell phone.
Then you'll know what you can and cannot
eat.
>> And you believe this might come out
soon. Uh GCM type of machine that
detects ketone on top of blood sugar.
>> Well, if people want to make a lot of
money on the machine, they certainly
would be driven to make it fast. That's
not my realm. I don't know how to do
that. I I just I just build this the
structure of what needs to be done. But
technology improvements will have to
work out these meters. And those guys
are going to make a billion dollars once
they get the free Libra ketone together
on the blood that that because you can
not only manage diabetes, you can manage
cancer, dementia, you can put yourself
in a completely new state of health
doing this. But I I don't know. I Yes,
there are people out there. Believe me,
there are people out there that want to
develop this as quickly. You know, we
developed that, but we couldn't make any
money on it. It's unbelievable. You
can't patent a formula. Can you believe
this? You can't patent a formula, but
you can take that formula and put it
into a machine that will do and you can
patent a machine. But I I didn't do any
of that. So again, our goal was to keep
people alive. I mean, that was uh was
our goal. Let the let the um let our
industrial technologies work uh and
build all those kinds of things.
>> And when you're trying to start the
cancer cells, is the aim to get rid of
it completely? Slow it down, shrink it?
think that well the go the goal of
course is to eliminate it completely. Um
uh we we are not there yet.
Um I I can't be sure. We have a number
of people who have have used metabolic
therapy and are declared no evidence of
cancer. Um uh we uh we had one dog
actually that was uh uh cured of of mass
cell tumor. I published that paper. the
do you only know you only know when
you're cured is if you die from old age
and cancer doesn't come back. Um you got
a tumor uh you use metabolic therapy
and uh it goes away but you're always
worried that it might come back and you
live to be 98 years old and you die from
old age and the cancer never come back
then your children will tell you you
were cured from the cancer because it
never came back.
But, you know, it's interesting with
metabolic therapy, if known, you can you
can use it to prevent cancer. Um, you of
course you're not going to be you don't
need to target glutamine to prevent
cancer. You just need to keep a lower
GKI and switch from high carb to to a to
a fat ketone. Uh, so so you can keep
your mitochondria healthy as a
prevention. You can you can do this as a
prevention. Um, and then if you were to
get cancer, of course, you can come in
with metabolic therapy now, targeting
the glutamine uh and making it a little
bit more uh effective and and the
strategy, but it's still a metabolic
approach. And uh so people can use
metabolic therapy to both prevent and
and treat cancer.
>> And what is your opinion about
intermittent fasting? And do you do any
intermittent fasting yourself?
>> Oh, I do it. I do it. Yeah. Oh, sure.
And I do a lot of exercise and inter
>> and do you do 12 to 16 hours or what
type of fasting do you do?
>> I do 18 20 hours. So you eat at night
and then you don't eat again until the
afternoon. Um you know you go out and do
a lot of exercise. I'm trying to do what
I can uh to keep uh the beast away. Uh
but but but but if I do get cancer uh
yes I will have to embrace uh my own
theory my my own therapy and and and
what we do is we'd have to go on a low
carbohydrate diet for 12 14 days get my
GKI down and then I will take Dawn uh
and my friends will deliver it to my
physician friends uh will deliver it to
me and I will do exercise and I will
keep my body as health as healthy as I
possibly can and hang on hang on because
you know you're killing in these tumor
cells a and um you know you go down to
the to the you get your blood work make
sure your blood work all your blood and
you should never be at a blood
homeostasis all the markers should be in
the zone I keep a low G a low GKI water
only fasting together with zero
carbohydrate diet and then pulse the
damn glutamine targeting pulse the
glutamine targeting and then hang on
baby hang on and see what happens
um and and now of Of course, we still
were quite quite healthy uh eating
natural grains uh uh through the natural
carbohydrates, complex carbohydrates and
the exercise that we got. Um but now we
are saturated with highly processed
carbohydrates uh which are refined
sugars and these kinds of things and
we're and we're less and less active in
our daily lives and we have more and
more uh uh carcinogenic compounds
forever chemicals
microlastics
uh uh toxins in the air uh so we're bar
we have a very poor diet and lifestyle
and we're bared by chemicals from the
environment which I think is
contributing ing uh to the earlier and
earlier onsets of cancer together with
the diabetes
the obesity epidemic. The obesity which
is striking all major societies now. Um
and uh this puts us at risk for all
kinds of chronic diseases. Uh cancer
being the number one uh uh chronic
disease which can be also significantly
reduced. All you can reduce all these
risk factors for cancer and diabetes by
bringing your body back into a state of
nutritional ketosis, intermittent
fasting, exercise, all these kinds of
things. And I know people don't want to
do that. They they don't want to do
that. They they enjoy eating the highly
the pro. But I I think there's nothing
wrong with natural uh carbohydrate
foods, sugar, natural sugar rather than
highly processed foods. Everybody likes
a pastry every now and then, you know, a
pizza, whatever it is. Um but but you
but you have to uh know measure your GKI
while you're eating the pizza. You might
be might not be so enthusiastic to have
another slice.
>> Even these animals, they love the pizzas
and donuts, right? You have talked about
it before in the San Diego Zoo.
>> Yeah, the zoo in San Diego. So, so not
only zoo in San Diego, also the zoo
here, the Franklin Park Zoo here in
Boston. I did both. I talked to the vets
in both of them. The bonobos, they have
these pygmy chimpanzees uh and
orangutangs and uh but once a week they
take a little honey and they put it on a
small dish and they hide the dish in the
different parts of the the cave. Soon as
the temperature and the hair the the
bonobos hear the guy out there and they
know kind of what time of the week
they're going to put out the dish with
the honey on it. little dish. They come
flying out of the cave, running around
looking under the book, the bushes and
the rocks, looking for that one little
dish that has the honey on it and they
start licking it off the off the dish.
So I said, "Why? Why don't you go down
to the doughnut shop, the Dunkin Donuts,
get a box of jelly fills and corellers
and all throw that into the bag." Oh,
she they'd be out there eating those
things so fast, but she said, "But the
the veterinarian said it would be animal
cruelty. You'll be damaging their
health." damaging animals health but not
for us.
>> You put the damn bonobos at risk for
chronic disease by giving them donuts
that humans are eating every day.
>> You know there is a neuroscientist who
did a study in Africa where these
baboons or monkeys were eating leftovers
from human. So they were eating um
highly processed carbohydrates, chips
and biscuits. And interestingly, a lot
of these animals started to develop type
two diabetes and hyper lipidmia,
metabolic syndrome and obesity and all
kind of metabolic diseases. Now you want
to tell they oh you can't do that
experiment because it's animal cruelty
again. Animal cruelty but yet we're
doing all this stuff to ourselves uh and
all smiling about it and then we get all
these chronic diseases but human
cruelty.
>> Yes. Yes. And isn't it insane that these
animals start to develop metabolic
syndrome and type 2 diabetes and
hyperidemia?
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. But we're not
allowed to do those experiments uh on
control groups of of monkeys because
monkeys are sacred animals of some sort,
you know, and we do the experiment on
ourselves. We already know what's going
to happen. Type two diabetes, metabolic
syndrome, uh cancer, uh um macular
degeneration, cardiovascular disease,
dementia. We're going to get all those
things. We already know what's causing
it, but we just choose not to not to uh
stop the uh the cause.
>> And there are these cases where someone
is healthy, exercise, fit, eats healthy,
and then develops cancer.
>> But you know, when people say, "I'm
healthy. I exercise. I do." We don't
really know.
>> Uh did they measure their GKI every day?
What's their GKI? I don't know what they
say. I'm a healthy guy. I ride, do this.
What's your GKI? I don't know. Well, how
do you how do you know you're really
healthy? How do you know you're in a
nutritional ketoic state? Because I said
nutritional ketosis is what's keeps the
mitochondria healthy because that's the
way we evolved as a species. We always
are in a state of nutritional ketosis. A
guy who exercises, I don't know what
he's eating. Uh what is GKI is? Show me
a guy who's maintained a very low GKI,
eating no highly processed foods, does a
lot of exercise, and then develops
cancer. Uh we want to know about that
guy. But people say, "Oh, I'm healthy."
Who's tell you? You're healthy. You tell
me you're healthy. You don't I don't
know. I didn't look at your physiology.
Oh, my blood work looks good. Uh, and
maybe he is, but what's your GKI? Oh,
it's about 50 or 40. No, no, no. You're
not in a healthy zone. So, um, so but
anyway, we we need to know that. We
don't and the answer is we don't have
any scientific evidence to prove that a
guy who looks healthy uh is actually in
a state of nutritional ketosis when he
developed the cancer. uh and we need to
have we need to do that. We need to look
at all these things more uh and and that
also generally those guys that appear to
be very healthy generally have lower
risk in general than the guy that's
morbidly obese. So uh we know that
there's a pretty strong relationship
between that
>> and you have talked about microplastic
and environmental toxins. Is there a way
to avoid these harmful substance?
>> Yeah, you know it's going to be hard. I
mean we everybody I'm even drinking a a
bottle of water here in plastic, right?
How do I know how many microplastics are
in there? Uh but they seem to be
permeated through our entire food chain.
>> Um plastics and I they're all all of us
no matter what country we live in uh
we're going to be exposed to this. And
then there's these forever chemicals
that are out there. These are chemicals
that our body can't break down uh and
they collect in tissues. So you got
microplastics,
you got forever chemicals, you got a
poor diet and lifestyle creating
inflammation making the microplastics or
the chemical carcinogen potentially
worse. You put all that together,
mitochondrial dysfunction, uh transition
from ox oxidative phosphorilation to
substrate level phosphorilation driven
by glucose and glutamine, disregulated
cell growth and cancer. There are
certain environments where we have a lot
of contamination in the env in the
atmosphere and in the soil and in all
the other things that we put ourselves
into. And you know these all of these
things impact negatively on our
physiology leading to mitochondrial
dysfunction and the whole slew of
chronic diseases as the result of that.
>> Even in the animals themselves we are
injecting them with hormones and
antibiotic and the GMO soil and
pesticides and the vegetables and all of
the environmental toxins. These things
has to be cancer-causing to very high
extent, right?
>> Abs. Absolutely. Uh now, if you have
what we call or um freerange
uh cow um where they eat just grass, uh
and then you find out, oh, it's gamey. I
I do you ever eat a a freerange cow? Uh
buffaloos or any of these kinds of
things? Uh the color of the meat is
actually different. So, you have a
corn-fed cow. The meat is tender. It's
juicy. I I didn't realize this, but when
cows eat corn cow did not evolve to eat
corn. The cow, the buffalo, they eat
grass. They eat grass. They don't eat
corn. So they eat corn, they get massive
acid indigestion and they have to keep
regurgitating the corn and then you give
the cow a lot of ant acids and the cow
eats the ant acids to neutralize the
acidity in its stomach and it makes the
meat very very tender. But the freerange
buffalo or cow, the color of the meat is
a darker red. a darker red uh because
it's more natural. Now, if they're
eating natural grasses that have no
herbicides in there and alalfa and all
these natural grains, uh then your meat
is going to be very uh uh free range.
It's going to be more organic than the
cow that's being driven by hormones uh
and all the corn and cornfed beef. Oh, I
got to People say, "I got to have
cornfed beef. Cornfed beef. It's so
juicy. It's so great." And it and it is.
I have to be honest with you. Uh and and
and it's and it's more tender and more
juicy than the same piece of cut of meat
on a free a freerange cow. So um so
freerange is more organic, more uh less
contaminated than the corn-fed or the
hormonally produced cow. You're 100%
right. This is all of this is in our
food chain and we taste it. We think one
is better than the other, but generally
one may not be as healthy as the other
>> and the majority of these harmful things
are unfortunately unavoidable.
Unfortunately, a lot of it is
unavoidable because we can't we we just
don't have access. Uh it's con we have
convenience, convenience, convenience.
Everything is convenience. So, nobody
wants to walk far to get something. They
want to drive there. In our country, you
drive up to the hamburger shop or the
doughnut shop and you don't even have to
unask the car. You just sit there and
they pass it through the window. Uh
think of our Paleolithic ancestors when
they have to go out and kill some
buffalo all day long. beating the hell
out of this thing, chopping it up, and
then some guy to go, you can drive into
it, and they hand you the beef right
through the window. You don't have to do
anything.
>> Yeah, we have delivery also.
>> That's right. They deliver it, run to
the door,
>> with the phone with a
>> Door Dash. You just call up on the phone
and all of a sudden the guy comes to
your house with all this food. You
wonder why you have cancer and diabetes
and dementia, you know? Well, I mean,
all the things that we're suffering with
are the result of our technology. And
I've told people this over and over
again. Our technology has evolved so
much faster than our biology. We are
still paleolithic. It takes millions of
years to change your biology. But our
technology has rapidly evolved.
>> Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Ciphford on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So, are we? That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rockermeer, a
German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paper book via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereed's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker Meyer has already
made at www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just
>> to the point now where we have we're out
of sync. We're out of sync with the
natural world. And yeah, Door Dash,
that's the greatest thing. And for
people who are living a traditional
lifestyle uh raising their own chicken,
growing their own vegetables, this has
to be healthy, right?
>> The term in the dictionary that came out
a few years ago, Oxford dictionary
called locoor. Lo locoor is a term to
describe foods that are grown naturally
in the local environment. So people
would have a garden uh or a community
garden that would be fertilized by
manure uh and all the soil would be uh
uh natural and the vi vegetables that
would be grown in that or or freerange
chickens or animals that would be in the
local environment. It's called loco for
which is essentially the way we evolved.
We were lo all local fors because we
would kill and eat things in our local
environment. um which is much, you know,
you have to be out every every day
picking something up from the ground uh
natural and bring it back into the
house. You know, people sitting in
traffic and they're all freaked out.
They come in the house, they don't want
to go out in the backyard and start
pulling stuff out of the ground. They
want to just throw something into the
microwave. But but uh the local for is
that what you just asked, what how do
you prevent that? People eating food
from the local environment grown
naturally in in your local environment.
uh uh that certainly will give you the
nutrition that will keep your
mitochondria as healthy as a as
possible. And of course the foods to try
to reduce are the highly processed
carbohydrates which are all in packages.
I I even have a Twinkie processed
carbohydrates baby has all almost
completely uh nothing here is is natural
or healthy yet people not only that they
deep fry these things and then put
powdered sugar on top of them. Can you
believe this? Yeah.
>> And they smile while they eat them.
>> And if the mitochondria gets damaged, is
there a way to reverse it? Is it a
reversible? Are you trying just to
preserve the functionality?
>> Um, we and Warberg both said there is a
a threshold upon which before there's a
certain destruction in the mitochondria,
it uh it can be reversed up until this
threshold point which we're not really
sure about in which time it becomes
irreversible. I am not in the b business
of trying to reverse cancerous
mitochondria. I kill them. I kill I'm
not a friend of the tumor cell. I am the
worst enemy that the tumor cell can
have. My job is to kill the tumor cell.
However, if we can protect the normal
cell from ever becoming damaged
mitochondria, then we can prevent that.
Well, once you have irreversible damage
to the mitochondria, I I'm not in the
business of res of res of um
re-educating a mitochondria because it
can turn back. It could recidivisition.
It can turn back on you at any time. I'm
not into that. We get rid of them. Kill
them. Get rid of them from the body. Uh
that's my view. That's my view of
managing cancer. We prevent cancer. But
if we get cancer, we kill them. Uh and
we kill them by starving their fuels
that drive their disregulated cell
growth, which is glucose and glutamine,
while transitioning the body over to
nutritional ketosis and then come out at
them that way and eventually purge. From
your observation, when you target these
cancer cells, do they disappear, shrink,
slow down? What happens with these
cancer cells?
>> We we we did we did this. So, um uh all
three all three of what you said, they
they shrink uh uh they die uh in
different you can see the dead cancer.
We we did that. You can look at dead
cells under the microscope and see the
dead cells. uh when we did glucose
glutamine targeting uh with Dawn uh we
saw massive numbers of dead of of dead
cells but but we uh dead cancer cells of
course in our pre-clinical system um and
we saw some cells in other cases in
humans where they a lot of them were
killed and but they not they were not
all dead and that's where you have to
move the the the the process forward to
see if we can kill the rest of them. But
here's the situation. If you kill a lot
of cancer cells all at the same time,
you have all these dead bodies, dead
cancer cell bodies laying around in a
particular tissue. Uh our immune system
is designed to come in and and um gobble
up and remove dead cells. That's part of
what our macrofasages do. Macroofage is
a type of immune cell that will uh wound
be effective in wound healing. So we
kill a lot of cancer cells. Uh the
problem is if we are too aggressive on
glutamine targeting, we prevent our
immune cells from picking up the dead
bodies, the dead cancer cells. That's
why it's absolutely crucial that when
you target glucose and glutamine and
kill a lot of cancer cells, you have to
pull the glutamine targeting off and let
our immune cells get back to their their
normal job and picking up the dead
bodies. If you're too aggressive on the
glutamine, you kill a lot of cancer
cells but prevent the immune system from
cleaning up the micro environment,
therefore leading to an infection and
making another kind of a problem that
you shouldn't have in the first place.
Again, this is we have such a a broad
knowledge of of cancer. Uh we are able
to track down those cells and kill them
without harming the rest of the body
when we know what to do and how to do
it. Because I've looked at all these
things. I have answers to your questions
mainly because I did the experiments
next door with my with my with my
colleagues and we exactly do what you
asked. What happens to these cells?
Where do they go? What's going on with
these things? Yes, we looked at them and
we saw exactly some of them are
shrunken. Some of them are outright
killed. Some of them just hang on. Uh we
didn't kill them all. So that's why
we're still perfecting the procedure.
>> Thank you for that. Could you share with
us the story of Pablo?
>> Pablo was a good person. and he passed
away um just recently uh last August uh
from his third uh debulking surgery. He
came to me in 2014 with a glyopblasto
and uh he was a young man I think he was
only 24 years old. Um he he had
diagnosed with a glyobblasto
and uh he didn't want chemo radi he
didn't want any kind of a therapy at
that time we were pretty really really
very very new in in what we understood.
In fact, we didn't even know completely
about targeting glutamine at that time.
Uh we knew it was necessary, but we
didn't really know how to do it too much
in human. But he just went on a really
low GKI. He got his glucose ketone index
down. He ate avocados and eggs and no
carbohydrates and his tumor shrunk. Um
it it became indolent. Uh and they said,
"Well, if he didn't have radiation and
chemo, he was going to be dead in 12
months." Uh he didn't want radiation
chemo. So he said, "I'll I'll I'll try
the metabolic approach." And um uh he
said he they told him it was an
inoperable it was an inoperable tumor
that he had to have radiation chemo to
control it. He said, "Well, you can't
cut it out. I don't want radiation. I
don't chemo." So what happened is he
went on a metabolic therapy and then
after two and a half years of of just
metabolic, the tumor became uh less
angry. it started to grow slow but when
it grew it became more circumscribed and
the neurosurgeon said I think we can get
this tumor out. So uh he went for a
surgery in 2017.
Uh they took the tumor out and then they
said they think they got it all. So he
he goes back and starts eating
carbohydrates again and then all of a
sudden this what was thought to be not
there something starts growing again. uh
and and then he immediately went back on
metabolic therapy and then the tumor
continued to grow. He never targeted
glutamine. He just targeted the glucose.
The tumor continued to grow again for
another three years. And in 2020
uh he had another debulking surgery for
a for a tumor that was considered
inoperable. And then um it continued to
grow and grow again. And then in in
2024,
which was last year, uh he had another
debulking surgery. And um and then we
tal we spoke to him in August uh after
his third debulking surgery and uh we
were laughing. He was very very healthy.
Uh we were joking around. I said,
"Pablo, you were you were supposed to be
dead 10 years ago. Nine years ago, you
were supposed to be dead." He got
married. He had two children. Um, and we
were laughing hysterically because he
was diagnosed with an inoperable tumor
that had now been operated on three
times.
So, uh, then what happened? Um, we
didn't know to our knowledge. I said,
you know, you he could outlive me. I I I
I said, you know, you keep living so
long. I said, you're supposed to be
dead. You're you're a guy with a
glyopblastoma living 10 years. 10 years.
>> That's what they told him, right? In the
beginning.
>> That's what they told him in the
beginning when he went.
>> Yeah. Then he I guess the neurosurgeon
said you we still have a tiny little
piece of tumor left and we think we can
get that out. And he didn't tell me or
my colleague Dr. Durier and um and then
we got an email from his wife saying
that Pablo just had another surgery and
I said wow I didn't know that. And then
we have a picture of him coming out of
the IC. Uh he has both thumbs up. He's
smiling. Um he he talked to his wife. He
was chatty. He was really great. And
that night he had a cerebral hemorrhage
from the surgery.
>> So he died from a surgical complication
rather than the cancer.
>> Surgical problem rather than the cancer.
So I don't know how long if he didn't
have that last bit of surgery. I don't
know how long he could have survived. He
certainly wasn't dying from the cancer.
That's for sure.
>> Did he receive any glutamine lowering
therapy?
>> No. Uh he did not. Uh he was against all
kinds of drugs. So he just wanted to do
what was working. Uh, and I told him, I
said, "You got to get some embedded. We
know now these parasite medications can
target glutamine with much less
toxicity. They're not as strong as Don.
Uh, but they do also work." And he
didn't take anything other than the
metabolic therapy. So, I think we can do
much much better on other cancer
patients if we if we do what we know how
to do. I think we'll even get much
better results. But the fact that you
got a guy with a GBM, he also had an
Idh1 mutation which produces a
metabolite called two hydroxyluterate
which actually targets glycolysis and
shuts it down. So he had a therapeutic
gene mutation which I think the field
needs to spend a lot more time on.
They're always trying to target this and
even some of these fool fools try to
target Idh1 which is actually a
therapeutic uh target. Well, I don't
want to go down that path because you
have no idea how how how little
knowledge people have of the biology of
cancer and they just do stupid things
when they shouldn't be doing those kinds
of things.
>> And surgery can be effective in curing
cancer, especially if the cancer is
small and localized, right?
>> The more you can cut out and the more
successful you are at the bulking, that
is removing the tumor, the the longer
you're going to live. Uh you can cure
cancer with surgery. There's no question
about it. If you are able to cut the
whole tumor out, no matter where that
tumor is, and you get every single cell,
and it's all circumscribed in one area,
you cure the person. There's no question
about it. It's the metastatic, it's the
spreading of the tumor cells into the
local surrounding environment or into
other organs that makes it a much more
difficult disease. And we discovered
that that cell is the macrofase itself.
It's a member of our own immune system
corrupted to use glucose and glutamine
in a disregulated way. So, I know this.
I know how to kill metastatic cancer
cells. our metabolic therapy will do it
quite effectively. But when you think
cancer is a genetic disease and you're
looking at all this crazy stuff, you're
not going to make the the you're not
going to drop the death rate any
significant way. Yeah, every now and
then you get somebody who responds
really well. But the majority of people
don't respond. They end up dead uh one
way or the other. Either they're killed
by the therapy or they're killed by the
tumor. Uh either way, uh the probability
of long-term survival after a stage four
metastatic diagnosis is not good. And we
think we can keep these people alive a
hell of a lot longer because we
understand the biology of the problem.
We understand this. I busted my ass for
decades looking at this stuff. I'm a
biologist, genet biochemist. I don't we
look at this stuff and I talk about it
with leaders on the field. My friend
Christo Chinopoulos from Seml Weiss
University, world expert on
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation. You got to work with
the people that know stuff. When you're
working with people that know stuff, you
can make major advances in science. When
you're working with people who don't
know anything and have misinformed
information, you're not going to make
major advances. Just that simple. It's
just that simple.
>> Is there one study where the evidence is
so overwhelming if there is an
oncologist or a physician listening to
us that there is one study that you can
reference them to?
>> You have to you have to look at all the
studies together and you have to be able
to connect the dots. And that's what I
did. Okay. I spent a lot of time looking
at Warberg's theory of cancer. uh I
proved that he was correct and I also
showed where he went wrong with our
colleagues where he made mis not he made
mistakes and he didn't know that there
was a a second form of fermentation
inside the mitochondria itself. So now
we have cleared up uh a lot of the
mystery of what cancer is based on utter
warberg's seinal seinal work. Uh I also
as a genesis knew right away uh pretty
clear once I started doing the research
myself and then looking at the nuclear
transfer experiments and all this other
stuff I knew right away this can't be a
genetic disease. Um so I I once you
eliminate one of the big stumbling
obstacles in the way then you can really
start focusing on what the real issues
are and then we realize we can put all
the dots together and we develop a
therapy that we published that will
eventually become the standard of care.
How long will that take? I don't know.
We already published the paper. We
already set out the protocol what to do
and how to do it. And there it sits in
the scientific literature right there.
So you want to make a t read that paper
have the oncologists and and physicians
assistants and the whole uh operation
follow what we are saying you will drop
death death death rates uh within the
next several years. Here we did we
published what more do we want? What
more can I do? What more can we do? We
already showed what's going on. We have
some big papers. Some of one of our
papers just came out the other day. It's
already got 16,000 views for the first
time showing that cancer cells are
getting energy inside the mitochondria
from a fermentation mechanism. The field
did not know about this. That's why the
glutamine has to be targeted. We have an
outline. We have a clear outline
supported by hard scientific evidence
that we can drop the needle, move the
needle significantly in dropping the
death rate of cancer. The problem is
that it it's a these are not the the
interference with what I'm saying has
nothing to do with science. It has to do
with policy and acceptance of the
scientific facts. Not the science
itself. The science to my mind is quite
solid. Uh and it's based on decades of
research.
>> Yeah. And are there ongoing clinical
trials at the moment? No, there are no
clinical trials because I told you the
hospitals think cancer is a genetic
disease and they haven't figured out how
to how to make a profit on that. Right
now the medical institution is not is
not in the position where they want to
change the standard of care. It's very
very profitable. People making a lot of
money hospitals, pharmaceutical
companies, oncologists, they make a lot
of money treating cancer. And now you
come in and say what are you going to
do? Water only fasting and use repurpose
drugs? Who's going to pay for this? You
know, the only the only people to
benefit from metabolic are the patients.
The the system yet is not yet ready to
accept a therapeutic strategy that's
effective and not toxic uh and and and
and cheap. You know, bottom line, it's a
massive expensive industry and everybody
is doing really well financially except
the patients. So uh um you know you're
not going to change until you until
there has to be an outcry on the part of
the world population to say we want
metabolic therapy. The problem is that
the field doesn't they're locked into a
an ideological dogma thinking it's a
genetic disease and therefore the field
all are trying to target genes and then
you have 1700 people a day dying as the
result of a misunderstanding of what the
nature of the disease is. It's not
complicated. said it's going is it going
to overtake? It should never ever
overtake heart disease ever. We can drop
those death rates by by 30% in five
years, 50% in 10 years. Uh once you
start learning how to do metabolic
therapy and running the clinics, that
should be the way it should be done.
Now, if people don't want to do that, uh
uh so it's a it has to go from policy.
It has to go. Yeah. I just heard the
other day I was saying, "Oh, we're going
to make vaccines and we're going to do
all this kind of crazy stuff."
>> Stuff now they're talking.
>> Yeah. We had we had big Watson computer
one time. Uh he could beat anybody in
chess and he bu beat win all these game.
So they brought him in to figure out
cancerous the gene mutations that might
be causing cancer and he was reaming
smoke coming out of the machine and
doing all this kind of stuff and then he
made recommendations to the oncologist.
The oncologists were smart enough to
know the recommendation from this super
intelligent computer uh would have
killed cancer patients. So uh no one
told the the machine that cancer is not
a genetic disease that the goddamn
machine was too stupid to know that. So
AI is only as smart as the guys that are
trying to work with it. So if if and
then if you go on the web and say ask AI
AI is cancer a genetic disease? Uh yes
cancer is a genetic disease. Then you go
on to AI is AI is cancer a metabolic
disease? Yes. Cancer is a metabolic
disease. Well it can't be both at the
same time. It's either one or the other.
I is the earth the center of the solar
system or is it the sun the center of
the solar system? You ask AI. AI would
say, "Oh no, the earth is the center of
the solar system and the sun revolves
around the earth and the AI what about
the the sun? Oh, the sun is the center
of the and all the planets revolve
around the sun." So, so I mean again it
comes down to the theory. If the
treatments are based on an incorrect
theory, the outcome is not likely to be
uh effective. And that's what we see as
we said and right now the pharmaceutical
companies are gearing up that in 2050 uh
you know one out of two people are going
to have cancer. More and more young
people are going to have cancer. The
profits are going to be enormous in can
I can drop that. We can prevent all that
stuff from happening right now today. we
have to do re-educate the oncology
community to know that cancer is a
metabolic disease uh driven by glucose
and glutamine and they can't transition
over to ketones. So therefore transition
the body to ketosis, target
simultaneously glucose and glutamine and
bring in your standard of care
procedures when you need them. Um and
that's the solution to the cancer
problem
>> or a a a rational um solution based on
hard science. And could you talk to us a
little bit about hyperaric oxygen
therapy and cancer
>> the Augustino and I and others uh you
can't if you bring your glucose ketone
index down you put a lot of pressure on
the tumor cells they'll produce ROSS
reactive oxygen species from the oxy the
high pressure oxygen and then when
they're in the low glucose and you give
them the glutamine while they're in
hyperbaric oxygen it's a facilitator to
kill cancer cells. It's a replacement of
of radi radiation and chemo in some ways
and it can make radiation and chemo even
more even significantly more powerful by
increasing reactive oxygen species which
will kill the cancer cell.
>> And how often is the glutamine therapy
given? Is there like a duration and
frequency?
>> That's the cutting edge right now. It
it's called dosage, timing and
scheduling. We are still working on
that. And that's interesting because all
of our funding for for doing this is
philanthropy and private foundations
because uh it's uh those figuring out
doses timing and scheduling is what they
call oh this is this is not sexy
science. You know this this is not
cutting edge sexy science but it'll keep
damn people alive longer. That's what it
will do. But that has to be determined
for humans. How long can we hit them
with the glutamine targeting at what
drug and what scheduling? uh and and
that has to be trial and error with each
patient. And then once we see how
patients respond, then we can imple
implement it in a more uh
a more outlined way based on our
experience. But we don't know gender.
You you have issues of of of age and
gender from people. Um and these all
have to be worked out with doses,
timing, and scheduling. We just know
what to do uh and generally how to do
it. But the actual specific of it's the
glutamine predominantly because we don't
have to worry about glucose. Um but it's
that that that and what better drugs do
we how many different drugs will do the
same thing um targeting glutamines uh
effectively without causing toxicity.
What dosage when do we schedule this?
How the timing uh uh when the patient
reaches a certain point then we come in
and do this. this has to still be worked
out and we do it preclinally first in
the models that we developed and then we
get some idea and then I translate it
immediately over to the clinic my my
physician friends and they will say oh
you know uh we found out if you do it
this way and that way it a little better
come back into the pre-clinical system
and perfect feed forward feedback feed
forward feedback until we perfect the
system you're not going to have
everything right done we have all the
concepts down we just don't have the
actual um the precision precision
metabolism for each person.
>> Well, Professor Steph, thank you very
much for this incredible interview. I
have certainly learned a lot and thank
you for all of your incredible work and
research and everything you do. And I
want to quote something you have said in
a prior interview and I'm just going to
read it. You said, "When the science
comes, you cannot suppress the truth."
And I'm documenting the evidence and
this is exactly what you're doing. So
thank you very much once again and I
hope all of your hard work um lead to
the results and outcome that you are
hoping for.
>> Certainly hope so and and and thank you
very much for uh asking really important
questions that can help uh people
understand uh what the issues are and
eventually you're right things will will
change for the for the better. That's
and that's the hope that we have.